Meeting 9/18/23
Attendee: Sumeeth Guda, Macy Griffis, Bruce Craig, Georgia Malandraki

Dr. Craig wanted to know about the project
1 population (15 patients), various tests (water ,pudding, effortful swallow, mednhelson)

3 variables: amplitude, duration, time-to-peak.

4 trials, 2 measurements

Measuing above the voice box

Macy then showed Dr. Craig the design set up and the initial code

Malandraki explained that this project is to teach client statistics as well as help another phd student

Left and right residuals were used to compare the sides

Craig talked about that the functionality of hypohtesis test and that a test-of equivalence could be a better metric to tell if the sides are similar

Taking results and looking at them in a slightly different way: Calculate a CI for the difference between the LR and see how they are big. 

Challeng: THe condifence bound is tricky to gauge

You could use the previous data and combine the past results

We can't tell for certain which side is the good side. However the difference between the sides could get pooled into the noise error. 

At this stage it is too complex for a masters thesis. 

Look into a Tukey test

Key thing: Test left and right seperately for each variable and each task. Don't combine them together. 

Assume left and right are not different. Outcome is the 


AIM 1: Summarize the data & Descriptive statistics for the data. (This is where you'd want to show Left and Right are equivalent and use average)

AIM 2: Compare the Amplitude, TTP, BD betweent he maneuvers and typical swallows. 

Craig: IF LR are similar and use average then what i'll have are 4 outcomes per subjects (ES, Mendhelson, 5 ml, 5 pudding) what we want to do is a RCBD (block on subject and have these as the 4 tasks)

What they want to do is see the average of the outcomes. mean_water against mean_mendhelson, mean_effortfulswallow

Craig: Teach Macy how to do this test for at least one of the signals. Don't do the project completely for Macy, teach her the ropes.

MAlandraki: What they are finding through Freddies work is that the liquid and pudding are very similar. Malandraki would not average effortful swallow and mendhelson. 

Craig: Do this after you fit a model with the 4 tasks. And see if these are the same (Look at the average water, average pudding against each rehab. Before you look at the average water * pudding against the rehab to see if there is similar difference)

Malandraki: In scenario where LR not equivalent. You could put side as a variable. This makes the model more complicated and takes away from RCBD assumptions. 

Craig: Can share examples on how to do this analysis. 

Craig: Show Macy where the numerical summaries are to specify mean, sd, etc to show the difference. Show the equivalence test to verify the similarity. 

Time frame: Get this done by 12/01/24. She won't have time next semester due to clinical rotations. 

Goal is to present the results in 02/25

Craig :Sumeet shoudl finish prelim analysis (LR can be combined) and descriptors for summary table on the 3 response variables by end of october. This allows for november to ask a lot of questions. And finish stuff up by december. 



